[Music]
hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is my review of the 2016 13
inch MacBook Pro so when they first
announced this thing I had mixed
feelings one I was excited because it's
the new MacBook Pro but then I looked at
the paper specs and the price tag and it
was a little less appealing $1500
with no OLED strip but I've had it for a
week these are my thoughts okay right
off the RIP the build quality on this
thing is the best in the business I've
handled a couple hop tops on this
channel and no one makes a laptop that
has better craftsmanship than this
MacBook the tolerances of all the
machining is very tight the hinge is
perfectly tuned and there's next to no
flex despite being super thin but for
$1,500 you're going to have to bring
more to the table than just build
quality and that's where things get a
little less awesome this specific model
has two ports both USB see both
supporting Thunderbolt 3 the fact that
they're all UVC bugs me a bit that means
adaptors for a lot of stuff that people
do right now in a couple years that'll
be different but right now you'll
probably need some adapters in regards
to the missing SD card slot I think a
lot of reviewers and journalists are
going to be bummed by this because well
we depended on this port for video and
camera work but a big chunk of MacBook
owners just never use that port and same
with the HDMI port so yeah it's easy for
camera users to be super annoyed by this
but for the average MacBook Pro user
it's not a big deal
but what does bug me a professional
laptop or a laptop with productivity in
mind shouldn't have two ports Ashley if
you're plugged into power you're looking
at one port the MacBook Air had more
ports than this one was plugged in now I
use this adapter it's my favorite
because it spreads Heat well I'll link
it below but the fact that owners need
to purchase an adapter or two or five is
pretty disappointing the keyboard uses
second generation butterfly switches
it's improved a bit it's still a half
millimeter of key travel but it feels
slightly more responsive than the
12-inch MacBook keyboard some people
love these butterfly switches and
actually prefer them I still prefer the
older generation of keyboards but this
is a personal preference thing and I
think most people can learn to like this
keyboard over time
the display is amazing the resolution
hasn't changed it's much brighter with a
wider color gamut the image is a little
cool prior to calibration but once
you've calibrated it's perfect it has
wide viewing angles and the bezels are
relatively thin they're not the thinnest
the XPS 13 is thinner but in terms of
overall display quality this is arguably
the best-looking 13 inch screen on the
market right now the webcam up top looks
like this it's better than the 12 inch
macbook but it's still not very good I
found the trackpad on the 12-inch
MacBook pretty big already this is
bigger and if you use a lot of gestures
you'll probably like this I only use a
few of the full hand gestures and I
actually find this trackpad a little too
big it's a personal thing I get the
occasional failed palm rejection because
of its size but it's still the best
trackpad I've used the speakers are also
ridiculously good
once again best-in-class put it this way
these speakers have set the bar so high
it kind of annoys me that I have to
review other laptop speakers some of the
bigger gaming laptops are louder and
have stronger bass but these MacBook Pro
speakers sound incredibly clean with
almost no distortion even at maximum
volume under the hood there's nothing we
can really upgrade by ourselves the RAM
is soldered on and the storage drives
yeah they're removable but they're
proprietary so you probably won't be
upgrading those any time soon
fortunately the drive is fast which
helps to make the system feel really
snappy the base processor is a skylake
core i5 6360 u it has a slower clock
speed than almost every Windows
ultrabook at this price point it's kind
of disappointing to look at this chip
and then realize that it came out in
September of 2015 is over a year old and
performance is similar to the base model
13-inch MacBook Pro from last year it's
just a lot more power efficient but the
truth is it's more than fast enough for
what most people would do on this
machine and because of the faster drive
this year the whole system does feel
quicker the integrated GPU is a nice
step up from last year's model it's now
running an iris 540 it's similar in
graphical compute to like a 930 m or 940
m you can play some games
nothing super crazy but if you want to
see a dedicated video on gaming with
this system let me
in the comments below the graphics chip
also has connectivity to 4k and 5k
screens as for external GPUs the razor
core doesn't connect right now at least
not well enough for me to do a video but
it's a work in progress and there are
some other external GPUs coming down the
pipe I'll be doing a dedicated piece on
that so subscribe if you want to see
that video when it goes up the fans are
silent on idle and unload it's audible
but not too loud it throttles when it's
under heavy load like rendering a video
now I'm an Adobe user so I can only
speak about video editing with premiere
and it's pretty good for 1080p edits but
4k edits are pretty choppy the battery
life is good the battery has been shrunk
down a lot it's now only 55 watt hours
but because of the more efficient CPU
I'm still getting over nine hours of
regular use with the screen at around
250 nits and because you can use any of
the USBC ports for charging
we've lost the MagSafe connection ok
this device costs $1500 and despite the
paper specs looking a little lame it's
actually a very solid device great build
quality fantastic screen speakers and
trackpad but what isn't great is
obviously the price tag and for $1,500
it's not that it's an overpriced machine
it's kind of Apple or premium pricing
but you're forced to purchase things in
this system that you normally may not
want to purchase or you may not need so
like the super wide gamut screen and the
fantastic speakers you're forced to buy
into this system just because it has the
pro moniker now dongles adapters
proprietary storage drives these are all
kind of designed to generate revenue for
Apple I get that but as a consumer we
kind of get screwed for it
now what I recommend this laptop to the
average person obviously not there are a
few people I would recommend this to so
people that really don't want the OLED
strip this is obviously the only other
option but for the average person that's
looking for a 13-inch MacBook that's
kind of above a MacBook Air look at last
year's model it's going to be like
thirty or forty percent cheaper than
this like the refurb model and it's
going to have very similar performance
of this maybe not in the GPU element but
the processor is going to be very
similar to this that's seen in this
video hope you guys liked it thumbs if
you liked it subs if you loved it it's
been nice see you guys next time
[Music]